.TH Sequencer66 "May 2021" "Version 0.94.0" "Seq66 Manual Page"

.SH NAME
Seq66 (qseq66) - Real-time live MIDI loop sequencer refactored from
Sequencer64/Seq24

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qseq66
[\fIOPTIONS\fP] [\fIfilename\fP]
.BR
.B qpseq66 (Windows)
[\fIOPTIONS\fP] [\fIfilename\fP]
.BR
.B seq66cli
[\fIOPTIONS\fP] [\fIfilename\fP]

.BR filename
is the name of a MIDI file to be loaded at startup.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fISequencer66\fP ("Seq66") is a real-time MIDI sequencer.
It provides a nice interface for editing and playing MIDI 'loops'.
It uses Qt 5 for the user interface.  It is functionally very
similar to Sequencer64 and Seq24, but more flexible and faster.
The two executables are qseq66 and a command-line/daemon called
seq66cli. The Windows version uses a variant of PortMidi, and is qpseq66.

.SH OPTIONS
Seq66 accepts the following options, plus an optional name of
a MIDI file.
Note that many of the options are "sticky".  That is, they will
be saved to the "rc" configuration file.  "User" options can also be saved,
if desired, via the "--user-save" option.

.TP 8
.B  \-h, \-\-help
Display a list of all commandline options.

.TP 8
.B  \-V, \-\-version
Display the program version.

.TP 8
.B  \-v, \-\-verbose
Adds more output to the console, for troubleshooting.  This option
is not saved to the "rc" configuration file.

.TP 8
.B  \-H, \-\-home dir
Set the directory that holds the configuration files.  It is always
relative to the user's HOME directory:  The default is $HOME/.config/seq66.

.TP 8
.B  \-X, \-\-playlist filename
Load the given play-list from the HOME directory.  The conventional name for
this file is, for example, "live-sets.playlist".
This file provides one or more play-list
entries, each providing a list of one or more songs.  Once loaded, the
user can use the four arrow keys to move between play-lists and the songs
in each play-list.  The play-list entries are also controllable via MIDI
control values set in the "rc" file.  See the Seq66 manual for
more information.  Note that, once set, this option is, by default, saved
in the "rc" file.

.TP 8
.B \-b b, \-\-bus b
Supports modifying the buss number on all tracks when a MIDI file
is read.  All tracks are loaded with this buss-number override.  This feature
is useful for testing, making it easy to map the MIDI file onto the system's
current hardware/software synthesizer setup.

.TP 8
.B \-B b, \-\-buss b
The same as the --bus option, just for oldsters to use.

.TP 8
.B \-q p, \-\-ppqn p
Supports modifying the PPQN value of Seq66, which defaults
to a value of 192.  This setting should allow MIDI files to play back at the
proper speed, and be written with the new PPQN value.  The support values for
PPQN (p) are 0 and 32 to 1920.  The value of 0 is special.  It indicates
that the Seq66 internal PPQN should be set to the value that
is present in the currently-loaded MIDI file.

.TP 8
.B \-l, \-\-client-name
Changes the default label for the client MIDI ports, which is "seq66".
It can be changed to any value, though better if it includes "seq66".
The Non Session Manager will override this label with its own label (e.g,
"seq66.nXYZX"), however.

.TP 8
.B \-n, \-\-nsm
Enable
.BR NSM
support (if included in the build options). This option provides
support for qseq66 as a client of the Non Session Manager.  This support
is basically finished, but please report any issues.
Note that
.BR LASH
is
currently not supported.

.TP 8
.B \-T, \-\-no-nsm
Disable NSM support (if included in the build options). This option overrides
the user-session option 'session', useful to temporarily run in "typical"
usage.

.TP 8
.B \-\-file \fI<filename>\fP
Load the specified MIDI file on startup.
This option does not exist.
Instead, specify the file itself as the last command-line argument.

.TP 8
.B \-m, \-\-manual-ports
Seq66 won't attach (auto-connect) ALSA/JACK MIDI ports.
Instead, it will create is own set of 4 virtual input and
8 virtual output busses/ports.
To change this number, use the "-o virtual" option.
The user can then connect them manually (e.g. in qjackctl for JACK usage).
Not supported in the PortMIDI build.

.TP 8
.B \-a, \-\-auto-ports
Seq66 will attach (auto-connect) to existing ALSA/JACK MIDI ports.
Useful for overriding the qseq66.rc configuration file when
set up to use manual (virtual) ports.

.TP 8
.B \-r, \-\-reveal-ports
Do not use the 'user' definition for port names, show the actual
port names reported by ALSA/JACK.

.TP 8
.B \-R, \-\-hide-ports
Use the 'user' definition for port names (useful for overriding a
configuration).

.TP 8
.B \-A, \-\-alsa
Seq66 will use ALSA MIDI ports.  This option is useful to override the
configuration file, if it was set up for JACK.  This is a sticky option.

.TP 8
.B \-s, \-\-show-midi
Dumps incoming MIDI to screen.

.TP 8
.B \-k, \-\-show-keys
Prints pressed key value.

.TP 8
.B \-K, \-\-inverse
Changes the sequence editor and performance/song editor colors to an
inverse-color mode.  This mode can be considered a "night mode".

.TP 8
.B \-p, \-\-priority
Runs higher priority with a FIFO scheduler.
This option needs root access to succeed.

.TP 8
.B \-P, \-\-pass-sysex
Passes any incoming SYSEX messages to all outputs.
Not yet fully implemented.

.TP 8
.B \-d, \-\-record-by-channel
Divert MIDI input by cannel into the sequences that are configured for
each channel.

.TP 8
.B \-D, \-\-legacy-record
Record all MIDI into the active sequence.

The following options will not be shown by --help if the application is
not compiled for JACK support.

.TP 8
.B \-j, \-\-jack-transport
Seq66 will sync to JACK transport.  Note that JACK transport is separate
from native JACK MIDI support.

.TP 8
.B \-J, \-\-jack-master
Seq66 will try to be the JACK master.  This is a sticky option.

.TP 8
.B \-C, \-\-jack-master-cond
JACK master will fail if there is already a JACK master.

.TP 8
.B \-M, \-\-jack-start-mode \fI<x>\fP
When Seq66 is synced to JACK, the following play modes are available:
0 = live mode and 1 = song mode (the default).  Live mode means that
the musician controls the unmuting of patterns on the main window.  Song mode
means that the song layout in the "Song" window controls the playback.

.TP 8
.B \-t, \-\-jack-midi
Use native JACK MIDI.  This is a separate option from JACK Transport, and is
the default.  If JACK is not running, the application falls back to ALSA.

.TP 8
.B \-N, \-\-no-jack-midi
Use ALSA MIDI, even with JACK Transport.  See the -A option.

.TP 8
.B \-u, \-\-user-save
Save the "user" configuration file after exiting.  Normally, it is saved
only if it does not exist, so as not to make certain command-line "user"
options (such as --bus) permanent.  (Perhaps the same should be true of the
"rc" configuration options.)

.TP 8
.B \-f, \-\-rc filename
Use a different "rc" configuration file.  It must be a file in the user's
$HOME/.config/seq66 directory or the directory specified by the --home
option.  The '.rc' extension is added if
no extension is present in the filename.

.TP 8
.B \-F, \-\-usr filename
Use a different "usr" configuration file.  It must be a file in the user's
$HOME/.config/seq66 directory or the directory specified by the --home
option.  The '.usr' extension is added if
no extension is present in the filename.
.TP 8
.B \-c, \-\-config basename
Use a different configuration file base name for the 'rc' and 'usr' files.
For example, one can specify a full configuration for "testing", for "jack",
or for "alsa".
.TP 8
.B \-o, \-\-option opvalue
Provides additional options, including the no-GUI version of
Seq66.  Here are the opvalues supported:

daemonize     Fork the command-line application to background.  The base
              configuration files are "seq66cli.rc", etc.  This feature
              currently does not work properly, needs to fork with the
              proper settings still. For now, create a keyboard or desktop
              shortcut for a seq66cli command.

no-daemonize  Makes the command-line application not fork.

log=filename  Redirect console output to a log file in the
              configuration directory.

sets=RxC      Modifies the rows and columns in a set from the
              default of 4x8.  Supported values of R are 4 to 8,
              and C can range from 8 to 12. If not 4x8, seq66 is
              in 'variset' mode. Affects mute groups, too.

scale=x       Scales the main window size, from 0.5 to 3.0.
              A value of 0.75 is useful when using
              "-o wid=2x2 -o sets=8x8", though the pattern
              labelling is mildly distorted.

mutes=value   Saving of mute-groups: 'mutes', 'midi', or 'both'.
              'mutes' saves to a separate file, 'midi' saves the mutes
              in the MIDI file.

virtual=o,i   Set up the --manual-ports option, using 'o' output ports
              and 'i' input ports.

.SH FILES
\fB$HOME\fP/.config/qseq66.rc stores the main configuration settings for
Seq66.  If it does not exist, it will be generated when Seq66
exits.  If it does exist, it will be rewritten with the current configuration
of Seq66.
If running under
.BR NSM ,
the configuration is stored in the Non Session Manager directory
created for that session.
Many, or most, of the command-line options are "sticky", in
that they will be written to the configuration file.
This configuration file also specifies other configuration files to be used.

\fB$HOME\fP/.config/qseq66.usr stores the MIDI-configuration settings and
some of the user-interface settings for Seq66.  If it does not
exist, it will be generated with a minimal configuration when Seq66
exits.  If it does exist, it will not be rewritten with the current
configuration of Seq66 except when the user-save option is given, or when
particular items are changed in the 'Preferences' dialog.

\fB$HOME\fP/.config/qseq66.ctrl contains the keystroke-control and MIDI-control
specification for operating Seq66 from the keyboard and via MIDI commands.
It also specifies MIDI commands to show the status of commands, patterns, and 
mute-groups on "launch-pad" devices.

\fB$HOME\fP/.config/qseq66.mutes contains the setting for mute-groups, which
specify collections of unmuted patterns to be played at the touch of a
keystroke or by a MIDI command configured in the 'ctrl' file.

\fB$HOME\fP/.config/qseq66.drums contains settings which can be used to modify
drum tracks recorded on legacy MIDI equipment to play on modern General MIDI
equipment. The conversions can be reversed as well.

\fB$HOME\fP/.config/qseq66.playlist contains one or more play-lists.  Each
play-list is a group of songs.  The user can cycle through the play-lists and
the songs using the arrow keys or MIDI commands configured in the 'ctrl' file.

\fB$HOME\fP/.config/qseq66.palette contains all of the variable colors for
tracks, foreground, background, etc.  If present, it overrides the default
palette colors.

\fB$HOME\fP/.config/qseq66.qss is an optional Qt style-sheet. If present,
it is loaded and can override most elements of the user-interface.
It can be specified in the 'usr' file.

Many sample configuration files are provided in the 'data/linux' and
the 'data/samples' installed directories.
See the Seq66 user manual for details.

.SH BUGS
Seq66 has them.  See 
.UR https://github.com/ahlstromcj/seq66/issues
for the reported bugs.  We take pride in hiding a few more :-D.

.SH SUGGESTIONS AND BUG REPORTS
Any bugs found should be reported to the upstream author and/or package 
maintainer.  See the link in the previous section.

.SH HOMEPAGE
.UR https://github.com/ahlstromcj/seq66/

.SH OTHER INFO
--ppqn works and should be close to bug-free.  If a MIDI file is re-saved,
the new PPQN is also saved to the MIDI file.
Note that some options shown above may have been
disabled in the Linux distro's build configuration.

The current Seq66 project homepage is a simple git repository at the
https://github.com/ahlstromcj/seq66.git URL.
Comprehensive instructions are provided as a PDF manual in the
same project.

The old Seq24 project homepage is at <http://www.filter24.org/seq24/>, and the
new one is at <https://edge.launchpad.net/seq24/>.  It is released under the
GNU GPL license.  Seq66 is also released under the GNU GPL license.

.SH SEE ALSO
There are no man-pages yet for the configuration files.
However, when Seq66 is first run, these files are saved in
$HOME/.config/seq66, and they are fairly self-documenting.
Also see the Seq66 PDF user's manual in the 'doc' directory for even more
information.  It is very comprehensive and is indexed.

.SH AUTHOR
Seq66 was written by Chris Ahlstrom <ahlstromcj@gmail.com>, with
contributions from Tim Deagan <tim@deagan.net>, Daniel Appelt
<daniel.appelt@gmail.com>, 0rel, layk, and many others.
Seq24 was originally written by Rob C. Buse <seq24@filter24.org> and the
Seq24 team at LaunchPad.

This manual page was written by
Dana Olson <seq24@ubuntustudio.com>
with additions from
Guido Scholz <guido.scholz@bayernline.de>
and
Chris Ahlstrom <ahlstromcj@gmail.com>.

