Release Notes for Seq66 0.91.0
==============================
Chris Ahlstrom
2020-11-15 to 2020-11-15

This file lists the changes for this version from the previous version.
Also see the README and INSTALL files.

Non Session Manager Support
---------------------------
Added support for true NSM support using that session manager's OSC
socket-based commands.  This support supplements the basic signal support
provided for working with nsm-proxy.  The refactoring to do this has been
extensive.

The first time qse66 is run in a session, it looks for the normal
configuration files in the "~/.config/seq66" directory.  If found, they are
copied to the NSM session's directory.  If not found, new versions are
created.  The NSM session directory will hold both configurations and
new/imported MIDI files.  Create the manual as shown in the "Documentation"
section for more information about the session manager.

Session information, whether a normal session or an NSM session, is shown in
the Session tab.

Play-List Support
-----------------
Play-list support has been made more robust and better able to work with NSM.
However, the "Playlist" tab is not yet fully function.  Edit the playlist file
(e.g. "qseq66.playlist") by hand for now.

Command-Line Support
--------------------
Got the CLI version building, but it still needs a lot of testing.

Documentation
-------------
The LaTeX documentation used for generation of the PDF manual is in progress,
with a lot of old documentation from the Sequencer64 project commented out.
In order to build this documentation, change the the "doc/latex" directory and
run "make".  The results are generated in the "pdf" directory.  At the present
time the documentation is incomplete.  The Sequencer64-doc project is similar
enough for most features, however.

The Developer documentation, generated by Doxygen, is a lesser priority.  It
is very extensive and one might think twice about generating it.  Change to
the "doc/dox" directory and do "make" like above.

One can also change to the "doc" and do "make" to build both sets of
documents.

Final Notes
-----------
All too many bug fixes and minor improvements.  Added the
--copy-dt-needed-entries flag to the qseq66 Makefile.am template in order to
fix linkage errors that cropped up in debug builds.

# vim: sw=4 ts=4 wm=4 et ft=markdown
